## Methods

### Reagent Preparation & Cell culture

All ELISA measurements were performed in multiplexed fashion, using individually identifiable beads (Luminex). Briefly, beads were sedimented for 3 min at 10$^4\times$g and then resuspended in 80 ml of 100 mM NaH$_2$PO$_4$ (pH 6.3). 10 ml of 50 mg/ml S-NHS and 10 ml of 50 mg/ml EDC were added, and the mixture was incubated with agitation for 20 min at room temperature. Beads were then pelleted and resuspended in 300 ml of 50 mM HEPES (pH 7.4), with 0.1 mg/ml of either AXL, MERTK, TYRO3, or Gas6 capture antibody (R&D Systems). The mixture was incubated overnight at 4℃ with agitation. The next day, the beads were washed repeatedly and stored in 1% BSA in PBS. Coupling efficiency was measured using biotinylated protein G.

### Binding Measurement

Each TAM Ig domain was coupled to fluorescently identifiable magnetic beads using the approach described for ELISA measurements. Coupling efficiency to beads was quantified using a biotinylated anti-GST antibody, and varied less than 2-fold between couplings. For binding experiments, coupled beads were incubated with varying amounts of ligand overnight at 4℃ with agitation. The next day, beads were washed repeatedly and bound ligand immediately quantified using a biotinylated detection antibody against Gas6.

The measured binding data was fit using Markov Chain Monte Carlo, taking into account the parallel organization of the measurements.

$$ \textrm{FI} = X_{coupling}X_{conv} \left( \frac{L}{L + K_{D}} \right) $$

### Core ligand-mediated TAM model

TAM signaling kinetics were modeled using ordinary differential equations, with the model layout inferred from structural understanding of ligand binding [@Sasaki:2006bs] [@Meyer:CellSys]. R~0~, R~1~, R~2~, and R~1,2~ indicate TAM receptor in an unbound state, bound at the N-terminal site, bound at the C-terminal site, and bound at both sites, respectively. $R_{D,1}$ indicates the dimer species with one Gas6 molecule bridging receptors of the same identity. $R_{D,2}$ indicates the full receptor-ligand complex with two Gas6 molecules dimerizing two receptors. Phosphorylation was assumed to occur fast, so that species abundance directly translated to phosphorylated receptor abundance [@Monast:2012vr]. Dimerization of receptors to form the $R_{D,2}$ species was modeled as a one-step reaction implicitly assuming the second binding after dimerization through the first interface was fast. As the local concentration of incompletely dimerized Gas6 would be greater than 1 M in the intermediate state, we believe that this is a suitable assumption. The forward rates of receptor dimerization were assumed to be equal. The rate of disassociation for receptors bridged by one ligand was set to be equal to the disassociation rate of the ligand at the site of unbinding, as ligand serves as the only means of receptor-receptor contacts. Autocrine ligand was assumed to be present at a constant concentration, with stimulated ligand adding to that concentration.

% dR1, dR2, dR3
$$  r_{b1} = k_{b1} R_{0} L - k_{u1} R_{1} \qquad r_{b2} = k_{b2} R_{0} L - k_{u2} R_{2} \qquad r_{b3} = k_{b2} R_{1} L - k_{u2} R_{1,2} $$

$$ % dR4, dR5, dR6
  r_{b4} = k_{b1} R_{2} L - k_{u1} R_{1,2} \qquad r_{1} = k_{f} R_{0} R_{1} - k_{r1} R_{D1} \qquad r_{2} = k_{f} R_{0} R_{2} - k_{r2} R_{D1}
$$

$$ % dR7, dR8
  r_{7} = k_{f} R_{0} R_{3} - k_{r3} R_{D2} \qquad r_{8} = k_{f} R_{1} R_{1} - k_{r4} R_{D2}
$$

$$ % dR9, dR11
  r_{9} = k_{f} R_{2} R_{2} - k_{r5} R_{D2} \qquad r_{10} = k_{f} R_{D1} L - k_{r6} R_{D2}
$$

The reaction equations for internalized species are identical. These lead to the following detailed balance relationships:

$$
  k_{r2} = {K_{D1} k_{r1}}/{K_{D2}} \qquad k_{r5} = {k_{r4} K_{D1}^2}/{K_{D2}^2} \qquad k_{r3} = {K_{D1} k_{r4}}/{K_{D2}}
$$

Assuming forward dimerization is constant:

$$  k_{r5} = k_{r6} K_{D1} k_{r1} / K_{D2}^2 / k_{f6} $$

$$  k_{r4} = k_{r5} K_{D2}^2 / K_{D1}^2 $$

$$  k_{r3} = k_{r4} K_{D1} / K_{D2} $$


\begin{table}[hbt]
  \begin{tabular}{cccc}
    Reaction \# & Receptor A & Receptor B & Dimer \\
    \hline
    7  & A$_2$     & B$_2$     & AB$_{D2}$ \\
    8  & A         & A$_{1,2}$ & AB$_{D2}$ \\
    9  & A$_1$     & B$_1$     & AB$_{D2}$ \\
    10 & A$_{1,2}$ & B         & AB$_{D2}$ \\
    11 & A$_2$     & B         & BA$_{D1}$ \\
    12 & A         & B$_1$     & BA$_{D1}$ \\
    13 & A$_1$     & B         & AB$_{D1}$ \\
    14 & A         & B$_2$     & AB$_{D1}$ \\
    15 & AB$_{D1}$ & None      & AB$_{D2}$ \\
    16 & BA$_{D1}$ & None      & AB$_{D2}$ \\
  \end{tabular}
  \caption{First letter indicates the Ig1-bound receptor.}
\end{table}

Trafficking was modeled and kinetically constrained based on understanding from other RTKs as done previously [@French:1997bi] [@Monast:2012vr] [@Meyer:CellSys]. We first assumed that endocytosis and endosomal sorting of each species occurred according to phosphorylation state. A faster phosphorylation-dependent rate ($k_{int,2}$) and a slower phosphorylation-independent rate ($k_{int,1}$) were included, as observed with other RTK families [@Monast:2012vr]. Fluid-phase uptake of ligand was assumed to not occur as its contribution has only been observed at very high extracellular concentrations. Endosomal maturation and degradation were modeled as done previously, with no sorting of ligand. The ligand compartment was assumed to constitute 2\% of the cellular volume, or 10~fl per cell, and the endosomal surface area was assumed to be half that of the plasma membrane. Receptor and ligand interactions were assumed to be identical within the endosomal compartment. Trafficking was defined by:


$$ \frac{\delta X}{\delta t} = -X\left(k_{int,1} + S_{a} k_{int,2}\right) + k_{rec} \left(1-f\right)\gamma X_{i} $$

$$ \frac{\delta X_{i}}{\delta t} = -\frac{X}{\gamma} \left(k_{int,1} + S_{a} k_{int,2}\right) + k_{rec} \left(1-f\right)\gamma X_{i} - k_{deg} f X_{i} $$
$f$ is the sorting fraction for each species, which is the fractional propensity of a species to be degraded instead of recycled. As such, $f = 1$ means that all of that endocytosed species is degraded, and $f = 0$ means that all is recycled. f is f~else~ for non-phosphorylated species and 1 for phosphorylated ones.

The model was implemented as an external compiled library in C++ using CVode, using the backward differentiation formula and Newton iteration, with the dense Jacobian solver [@Hindmarsh:2005hg]. Integration was performed for 10,000 min in order to ensure that the model had arrived at equilibrium in the presence of autocrine ligand before the addition of exogenous stimulus at $t = 0$. Automated testing ensured (1) all species came to equilibrium in the absence of receptor trafficking and (2) detailed balance was satisfied at equilibrium.

\subsection{PtdSer Compartmental Model}








\subsection{TAM fragment modeling}

The following reactions were added to the core ligand-mediated activation model, accounting for binding of a receptor fragment with a single Ig domain. While the model was constructed to handle fragments binding to the Ig1 domain, the reaction system is symmetric with respect to switching all Ig1 and Ig2 affinities. Thus, the results for Ig2 domain fragments were evaluated by swapping these affinities.

$$ % dR42
%const double dR42 = tr->Fbind * R[2] * tr->F - tr->Funbind * R[6];
  r_{f1} = k_{F,f} R_{1} F - k_{F,r} R_{F1}% R[6]
$$


$$ % dR43
% const double dR43 = tr->Fbind * R[3] * tr->F - tr->Funbind * R[7];
  r_{f2} = k_{F,f} R_{1,2} F - k_{F,r} R_{F1,2}
$$


$$ % dR44
%const double dR44 = r->Binding1 * R[6] * tr->R.gasCur - r->Unbinding1 * R[7];
  r_{f3} =
$$


$$ % dR45
%dR45 = r->Binding2 * R[0] * tr->Fgas - r->Unbinding2 * R[6];
  r_{f4} =
$$


$$ % dR46
%dR46 = r->Binding2 * R[1] * tr->Fgas - r->Unbinding2 * R[7];
  r_{f5} =
$$









## Supported lipid bilayer formation

100 nm silica beads were purchased from Bangs Laboratories. Supported lipid bilayers were made as previously described with some modification [@Fu:2015gl]. Roughly 40 mg beads were washed successively with ultrapure water, ethanol, and then ultrapure water twice. The beads were then resuspended in 500 uL ultrapure water and mixed with XXX 500 µL of vortexed multi-lammellar vesicles in water. CaCl~2~ was added to a final concentration of 2 mM to accelerate bilayer formation. The suspension was vortexed periodically over 1 hr at 37℃. After formation, the formed bilayers were purified by washing three times and then resuspending in 1 mL DPBS.
